chore: adds release notes for 4.5.0 (#1238)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/core/releases/4.5.0.md

---
title: "4.5.0 release notes"
linkTitle: "4.5.0"
weight:
description: >
relevantLinks: >
toc_hide: true
---

## Known issues

Check the repository for the [latest known issues](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Affects%3A+4.5.0%22).

## Upgrade notes

### Breaking changes

None.

### UI/UX changes

- [#8513](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8513): Align "Target" components with Material design guidelines
- [#8541](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8541): Options with long names look wrong in enketo selects

> - [#8686](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8686): Fix target UI to match Figma

Reviewer: Remove this one from here. It's basically the same as the first and I think it'd be confusing if people try to work out what's different.

```suggestion
```

## Highlights
### Schedules can be created by passing array on start_from

> We can now configure start_from to accept array of fields while configuring schedules. This allows users to pass multiple fields and first existing field will be used to create schedules. Read more about schedules in [documentation](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/apps/reference/app-settings/schedules/#app_settingsjson-schedules). cht-conf 3.20.0 or higher is required to validate config containing arrays of field in start_from. 

Reviewer: As long as the cht-conf requirement is documented in the docs I don't think you need to include it here.

```suggestion
It is now possible to configure the `start_from` property to accept array of fields while configuring SMS schedules. This allows users to pass multiple fields and the first existing field will be used to create schedules. Read more about schedules in [the documentation](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/apps/reference/app-settings/schedules/#app_settingsjson-schedules).
```

### Target components are updated to match material design

> We updated target components to match to [material design](https://m3.material.io/components/dialogs/guidelines). Many other components were updated in [4.4.0](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/core/releases/4.4.0/#uiux-changes).

Reviewer: Try to avoid "we" and "you" in documentation.

```suggestion
The targets UI has been updated to match [material design](https://m3.material.io/components/dialogs/guidelines). This is the next step in transitioning to using a modern and intuitive design throughout the UI. Many other components were updated in [4.4.0](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/core/releases/4.4.0/#uiux-changes).
```

{{< figure src="../images/4.5.0-8513-target-changes" class="left col-12 col-lg-12" >}}
<br clear="all">

### Outbound tasks can be configured on a schedule

> CHT now supports adding cron job on outbound push so that tasks can be run on a schedule based on the cron expression. See more about this [here]({{< relref "apps/reference/app-settings/outbound" >}})

Reviewer: Link content should explain where you're going. This is helpful if you're just scanning the page rather than reading every word.

```suggestion
The CHT now supports scheduling when outbound push tasks are run based on a cron expression. Read about how to set this up in the [outbound push documentation]({{< relref "apps/reference/app-settings/outbound" >}}).
```

### Features

None.

### Improvements

- [#8229](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8229): Send outbound tasks on a schedule
- [#8433](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8433): Add Enketo telemetry events for contact forms
- [#8513](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8513): Align "Target" components with Material design guidelines
- [#8633](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8633): Allow schedule to start with multiple fields

### Security fixes

> - [#8564](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8564): Security issue #453

Reviewer: I've updated the issue title and we can be more clear about the issue now that it's fixed.

```suggestion
- [#8564](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8564): Improve masking of passwords in log files
```

### Performance improvements

- [#8576](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/8576): Low performance in Reports tab for users with thousands of places

### Bug fixes

> - [#7148](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/7148): Feedback docs: "409: Document update conflict"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#7148](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/issues/7148): Document update conflict reported in feedback docs
```
